The goal of Ethereum is to help you build decentralized applications also known as DApps.
In this video, I'll introduce you to DApps by explaining what they are,
what makes them different from standard applications,
and how to find some existing DApps on Ethereum network.
So first, what's a DApp?
A DApp is an application that has it's back-end
code running on a decentralized peer-to-peer network.
In Ethereum's case, that decentralized network is the world computer.
That's different from standard applications because
those apps all run on centralized servers.
In the same way that bitcoin tried to take out
the intermediaries in financial transactions,
Ethereum is attempting to do it for entire applications.
Since the EVM is able to process turing-complete logic,
these DApps can work similar standard applications
with the difference being the distributed network that supports them.
There are other platforms that you can build DApps on top of like EOS and Neo,
but Ethereum is currently
the world's leading platform for building distributed applications.
Once you've built this back-end that connects to the Ethereum platform,
you can continue building this app in ways you already know.
Using HTML, CSS, JavaScript,
and any web frameworks or tools that you'd prefer to work in,
you can build out entire front ends to
your decentralized application that users can interact with.
The core piece of code that's connecting users to
the Ethereum network through the front end you build is the smart contract.
This smart contract specifies the purpose of the application
and allows users to set and retrieve data from the Ethereum network.
You'll soon build a smart contract and deploy it for yourself to see how easy it can be.
Before building your own DApps,
it can be fun to checkout existing applications that are already on the Ethereum network.
Similar to the App Store or Google Play,
Ethereum has a set of applications already
live that you can check out for yourself right now.
You can search for them in any browser,
but one tool I found that's pretty cool to checkout is Dappradar.
Dappradar categorizes many of the DApps on
the Ethereum network and rates them based on users and volume.
That gives you the opportunity to see some of the top apps out there right now.
As one example, I'll click on CryptoKitties.
When you first visit the website,
you'll see a live DApp that allows you to collect and breed digital cats.
It was one of the first biggest apps to come out and it allows you to breed,
buy, and sell collectible kittens on the Ethereum network.
Well, it's just a game, it's also a great example of what's possible on the network.
By breeding kittens, you're creating new instances of
an account that can be bought and sold over the Ethereum network.
Over top of that functionality is a bunch of cute kittens,
but ideas like this can apply to almost anything.
For each DApp you end up looking at,
it's helpful to start thinking about how
the underlying capability of the Ethereum network is making it possible.
So head back to that DAppradar and take some time
now to check out that from across all the different categories.
Also, if you're on your phone,
you might want to check out the Trust browser.
This Trust browser is a mobile app browser that you can use from your phone.
It helps you get set up with a wallet and start browsing DApps for yourself.
Look, right on the front page is a picture of CryptoKitties,
the site we just went over.
So that wraps up this quick introduction to DApps,
but we'll be learning tons more about this throughout the course.
Hopefully now, you have a decent idea of what the DApps are,
how they're different from standard applications
and how you can start searching some of them for yourself.